index.md, before:

# [About TV Rename](about "Read more about TV Rename")
TV Rename is a TV Show management tool that runs on Windows XP and later... *[Read more about it here!](about "Read more about TV Rename")*

# [Quickstart Guide](quickstart "Read The Quickstart Guide")
Get up and running with TV Rename... *[Click here!](quickstart "Read The Quickstart Guide")*

# [User Guide](userguide "Read The User Guide")
TV Rename in lots more detail... *[Click here!](userguide "Read The User Guide")*

# [Tips 'n' Tricks](tips-tricks "Read Tips 'n' Tricks")
TV Rename's "Did you knows..." *[Click here!](tips-tricks "Read Tips 'n' Tricks")*

# Forums
We use two google groups for help and support.
### ["TVRename"](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/tvrename "Visit the TV Rename Forum")
***The Main Forum*** - You can ask for help , make suggestions, and report something you think may be a bug [here](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/tvrename "Visit the TV Rename
 Forum"). 
### ["TVRename Releases"](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/tvrename-releases "Visit the TV Rename Releases Forum")
***The Releases Forum*** - Release notes and notifications of new versions can be found [here](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/tvrename-releases "Visit the TV Rename Releases Forum"). You can download the latest version here, as well as alphas and betas.. 

# Issues and Bugs
1. Start by visiting the [forum](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/tvrename "Visit the TV Rename Forum"), and make a post there. 
2. You can also use **Help>Bug Report** in the application. Fill in the form and click ```Create```. Once the diagnostic information has been gathered, copy and paste it to the [forum](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/tvrename "Visit the TV Rename Forum").
3. If you've found a bug that has been verified by the team, please raise it on the [bug tracker](https://github.com/TV-Rename/tvrename/issues "Visit the GitHub Bugtracker").
4. If you need a quick resolution then packaging up your configuration files and sending them to us will help speed diagnosis. **For security reasons it is advisable to send the package to justthe person helping you with your problem**.

# [Feature Requests](http://ideas.theideawall.com/TVRename/Forum/Details/8dea3275-4010-4bab-9763-a8bb613517e0 "Visit TV Rename's Idea Wall")
***Our Latest Feature...*** Please raise  ideas for features (or vote on existing ideas) on our [idea wall](http://ideas.theideawall.com/TVRename/Forum/Details/8dea3275-4010-4bab-9763-a8bb613517e0 "Visit TV Rename's Idea Wall").

# [Under the Hood](technical "Read the Technical Guide")
Get the oily rag out, its time to get your hands dirty... [Read the Technical Guide](technical "Read the Technical Guide").

# Buy us a drink
If this program has saved you time, or you use it regularly, then [buy us a drink](https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_xclick&business=paypal%40tvrename%2ecom&item_name=TVRename%20thank-you%20drink&no_shipping=0&no_note=1&tax=0&currency_code=USD&lc=AU&bn=PP%2dDonationsBF&charset=UTF%2d8) to say thanks! Suggested amount is the price you'd pay for a beer (or other beverage of your choice!).

Commit message:

Added cmd-line.md and created new monospaced css for "code"

index.md, after:

# [About TV Rename](about "Read more about TV Rename")
TV Rename is a TV Show management tool that runs on Windows XP and later... *[Read more about it here!](about "Read more about TV Rename")*

# [Quickstart Guide](quickstart "Read The Quickstart Guide")
Get up and running with TV Rename... *[Click here!](quickstart "Read The Quickstart Guide")*

# [User Guide](userguide "Read The User Guide")
TV Rename in lots more detail... *[Click here!](userguide "Read The User Guide")*

# [Tips 'n' Tricks](tips-tricks "Read Tips 'n' Tricks")
TV Rename's "Did you knows..." *[Click here!](tips-tricks "Read Tips 'n' Tricks")*

# [Command Line Interface](cmd-line "Read about using the CLI")
Things you can do from the [command line](cmd-line "Read about using the CLI"). 

# Forums
We use two google groups for help and support.
### ["TVRename"](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/tvrename "Visit the TV Rename Forum")
***The Main Forum*** - You can ask for help , make suggestions, and report something you think may be a bug [here](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/tvrename "Visit the TV Rename
 Forum"). 
### ["TVRename Releases"](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/tvrename-releases "Visit the TV Rename Releases Forum")
***The Releases Forum*** - Release notes and notifications of new versions can be found [here](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/tvrename-releases "Visit the TV Rename Releases Forum"). You can download the latest version here, as well as alphas and betas.. 

# Issues and Bugs
1. Start by visiting the [forum](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/tvrename "Visit the TV Rename Forum"), and make a post there. 
2. You can also use **Help>Bug Report** in the application. Fill in the form and click ```Create```. Once the diagnostic information has been gathered, copy and paste it to the [forum](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/tvrename "Visit the TV Rename Forum").
3. If you've found a bug that has been verified by the team, please raise it on the [bug tracker](https://github.com/TV-Rename/tvrename/issues "Visit the GitHub Bugtracker").
4. If you need a quick resolution then packaging up your configuration files and sending them to us will help speed diagnosis. **For security reasons it is advisable to send the package to justthe person helping you with your problem**.

# [Feature Requests](http://ideas.theideawall.com/TVRename/Forum/Details/8dea3275-4010-4bab-9763-a8bb613517e0 "Visit TV Rename's Idea Wall")
***Our Latest Feature...*** Please raise  ideas for features (or vote on existing ideas) on our [idea wall](http://ideas.theideawall.com/TVRename/Forum/Details/8dea3275-4010-4bab-9763-a8bb613517e0 "Visit TV Rename's Idea Wall").

# [Under the Hood](technical "Read the Technical Guide")
Get the oily rag out, its time to get your hands dirty... [Read the Technical Guide](technical "Read the Technical Guide").

# Buy us a drink
If this program has saved you time, or you use it regularly, then [buy us a drink](https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_xclick&business=paypal%40tvrename%2ecom&item_name=TVRename%20thank-you%20drink&no_shipping=0&no_note=1&tax=0&currency_code=USD&lc=AU&bn=PP%2dDonationsBF&charset=UTF%2d8) to say thanks! Suggested amount is the price you'd pay for a beer (or other beverage of your choice!).
